===========
Kiosk mode
===========

.. _attendances/kiosk-mode-entry:

Some companies may opt to use a dedicated device (a laptop or desktop PC, a tablet, or a mobile
phone) for employees to check in and check out from. Kiosk mode is used for these scenarios.

.. important::
   If users check in and out using either a badge or an RFID, then an accessible device in kiosk
   mode **must** be available to check in and check out using these two methods.

Entering kiosk mode is only available for users with specific :ref:`access rights
<attendances/access-rights>`.

Kiosk mode can be activated in three different ways:

#. Navigate to the :guilabel:`Attendances` application, and click :guilabel:`Kiosk Mode` in the top
   menu. The device then enters kiosk mode.
#. Navigate to the :menuselection:`Attendances application --> Configuration`. In the
   :guilabel:`Kiosk Settings` section, click on the link in the :guilabel:`Attendance Kiosk Url`
   field. A new tab opens in kiosk mode. It is recommended to close the database tab to keep the
   database secure.
#. Navigate to the :menuselection:`Attendances application --> Configuration`. In the
   :guilabel:`Kiosk Settings` section, click :guilabel:`Copy` next to the link beneath the
   :guilabel:`Attendance Kiosk Url` field. Paste this URL into a web browser on the kiosk device and
   navigate to it.

.. image:: kiosk_mode/kiosk-url.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Attendances Kiosk URL field in the settings section of the Attendances application.

As a security measure, once a device is in kiosk mode, it is not possible to exit kiosk mode and go
back into the database without signing back in. To exit kiosk mode, click the back button in the web
browser. This logs the user out of the database, and returns to the main log in screen. This adds an
extra layer of security, preventing anyone from accessing the database.

Badge
-----

To check in or out using a badge, tap the :guilabel:`ðŸ“· (camera) Tap to scan` image in the center of
the kiosk. Then, scan the barcode on the badge using the method configured in the :ref:`kiosk
settings <attendances/kiosk-settings>` section of the configuration menu. Options are a dedicated
barcode scanning device, or the kiosk's front or back camera. Once the barcode is scanned, the
employee is checked in or out, and a :ref:`confirmation message <attendances/confirmation>` appears
with all the check in or check out information.

.. image:: kiosk_mode/scan-badge.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Attendances Kiosk view displaying the scan badge image.

RFID
----

To check in or out using an RFID key fob, simply scan the fob with an RFID reader. Once scanned, the
employee is then either checked in or checked out, and a :ref:`confirmation message
<attendances/confirmation>` appears with all the check in or check out information.

Manually
--------

Users who do not have a scannable badge or an RFID fob can manually check in and out at a kiosk. Tap
the :guilabel:`Identify Manually` button on the kiosk, and a screen with all the employees that can
be checked in or out appears. This is the same view as in the *Employees* application dashboard. Tap
on the person, and they are either checked in or checked out, and a :ref:`confirmation message
<attendances/confirmation>` appears.

When a large number of employees appear in the list, making scrolling inefficient, there are two
ways to quickly find a specific person:

- :guilabel:`Search...`: tap on the :guilabel:`Search...` field and enter the person's name. As the
  name is typed in, the matching results are displayed on the screen.
- :guilabel:`Department`: to quickly filter the presented employees, tap on a department to display
  only those employees that are part of that department. The :guilabel:`Departments` are listed on
  the left side of the screen, and the number at the end of each department indicates how many
  employees are part of the department, and is displayed when selected.

PIN
~~~

If the :guilabel:`Employee PIN Identification` option was activated in the :ref:`kiosk settings
<attendances/kiosk-settings>` section of the configuration menu, the employee is prompted to enter a
PIN when manually checking in or out.

After the employee is selected, a number pad appears with a message. When checking in,
:guilabel:`(Employee) Welcome! Please enter your PIN to check in` appears above the numbers. When
checking out, :guilabel:`(Employee) Want to check out? Please enter your PIN to check out` appears
above the numbers.

Tap in the PIN using the number pad, then tap :guilabel:`OK` when done. The employee is then checked
in or out, and a :ref:`confirmation message <attendances/confirmation>` appears.

.. image:: kiosk_mode/enter-pin.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The pop-up that appears when prompted to enter a pin.

.. _attendances/confirmation:

Confirmation message
--------------------

When an employee checks in or out, a confirmation message appears with all the check in or check out
information. When checking in, a welcome message appears, as well as the date and time of check in.
An :guilabel:`Hours Previously Today: HH:MM` field also appears, displaying any time already logged
for that employee for the day. If no time has already been logged, the value displayed is `00:00`.
Beneath the message is an :guilabel:`OK` button. To exit the screen before the preset time in the
kiosk, tap the :guilabel:`OK` button.

When checking out, the screen displays a goodbye message, with the date and time of check out, and
the total hours logged for the day. Beneath the message is a :guilabel:`Goodbye` button. To exit the
screen before the preset time, tap the :guilabel:`Goodbye` button.

.. image:: kiosk_mode/goodbye-message.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The goodbye message with all the employee's check out information.
